1) Things that NEED change, because they're crucial to gameplay and fairness:


1.1) Bombard Towers need to inflict melee damage instead of piercing. The former specialty of Bombard Towers was (besides being fairly strong, but also being above average in inaccuracy)
was to counter siege weapons. Specifically, Rams and Trebuchets that were handled "a bit too close for confort".

1.2) Anything that resides in explored fog of war should be stationary. For instance, now, you're able to see deer and wild boars and other wildlife move as if they're in normal visibility
range, thus warning you of potential intruders or lamers. Just like enemy buildings, wildlife should be "frozen solid at their last seen state and position" in fog of war.

1.3) Perhaps the most important thing, attacking animations of non-ranged units don't correspond to the attack rates. This is most commonly seen at Spearmen attacking two different Scouts
in a short period of time: the animation clearly shows hitting both of them, but only the first one is taking damage, because the cooldown time was not count down yet.

1.4) Clicking units into fog of war (either explored or unexplored) and the units know exactly where the holes are. Units should, just like the player, not be able to know where the holes
are in unexplored enemy walling systems. Everything that is not in visible range (AKA in fog of war) should be considered as plain, uninterrupted terrain regarding path finding. Villagers
finding holes in your own walls should stay as it is, because it is, again, in visible range, and not in fog of war, so they know exactly where the holes are.

1.5) An option to disable automatic gate rotation. Imagine you want to quickwall an enemy unit or units using a Palisade Gate with classic CRTL + mousewheel, but they're close to your
other, regular Palisade Walls, so you have to rotate the gate multiple times more than what you would normally have to, just because there are other walls near you. Not having the option
to disable automatic gate rotation greatly decreases your chances in succeeding the quickwall traps.

1.6) Monk conversion and Trebuchet precision RNG reduced to a minimum or taken out of the gameoverall. Age of Empires 2 is known for its skill-based outcomes and situation handlings. If
there has to be an RNG factor, then let's reduce its impact to very small intervals of conversion times (for instance, between 5 and 8 seconds instead of between 2 and 20), or a very small
chance of a Trebuchet missing its target, even if that means decreasing the Trebuchet fire rate or increasing the Monk faith regaining charge time.

1.7) The Line Formation of a group of military units switches from horizontal to vertical as it pleases. This is the most common problem when, for instance, trying to escape with Scouts
from Spearmen. This should be changed so that it switches from horizontal to a vertical line only when the Line Formation hotkey is pressed again. When switching to Line Formation from
any other formation, it should always be the horizontal variant first; and ONLY IF the Line Formation is pressed again during the already set Line Formation, only then it should change to
the vertical variant. Equivalently, when the vertical Line Formation variant is active, pressing the Line Formation hotkey again switches it back to the horizontal variant.

1.8) Power spikes from Watch Towers to Guard Towers and from Guard Towers to Keeps are almost negligible, and we barely get to see it in high level games. The attack should be upgraded at
least by +3 in the Castle Age, considering that we already have heavy cavalry and siege weapons available in that age; and at least an additional +2 attack when upgrading to Keep.

1.9) Xolotl Warriors are extremely rare and hard to come by, but they have the same cost as a Knight, also suffering from no possible upgrades. We have to reward the player somehow for
being able to produce them, either by reducing their cost, or by giving them a good bonus against a certain type of units, for instance, infantry and/or archers.

1.10) Attack wavepoint is broken, and it worked before. This is also a very important missing element.

1.11) Gates should be locked by default when built instead of unlocked, because villagers oftentimes open the gates by accident, granting the opponent free entry.

1.12) 4K resolutions provide extremely small in-game mouse cursors, which are, at times, difficult to see. We need to add an option to increase/decrease the size of the in-game mouse
cursor.





2) Things that could POTENTIALLY change, to make gameplay even more strategic:


2.1) Farms should not have hit points, but instead, their remaining food count is the hit point equivalent. For instance, a random Farm has 190 food left. If an unupgraded Archer hits it,
it will have only 186 food left, etc.

2.2) Siege Tower is an excellent situational strategy choice, but oftentimes, too expensive to utilize it at key moments. We should do either one of two things: reduce its cost to only
about 140 wood and 120 gold, to make its cost comparable to a Mangonel's cost; or make garrisoned archers the ability to fire arrows, in which case we should even further increase its
cost a tiny bit, or change its cost to, say, 250 wood and 100 stone, since it would become a type of a portable Tower. This being said, keep its range to a minimum, like 5 or 6 base range
which would increase only using Siege Engineers, because they affect siege weapons only. In that case, it would have at least 4 range less than a fully upgraded Keep, to compensate the
Siege Tower mobility factor.

2.3) When Loom is researched, all male Villagers get a beige leather shirt, similar to Villager role players at Red Bull's Wololo 5 event, just to make this tech more visual.





3) Ideas for civilization bonuses:


3.1) Monks carrying Relics move 50% faster.

3.2) Male Villagers chop wood 10% faster; female Villagers gather food 10% faster. (including this in any future civilization or current civilization change would mean taking care of the
chance of male/female Villager creation to be fairly equal)

3.3) Downhill attacking causes bonus damage as well instead of reduced damage. Only equal level attacking causes standard damage.

3.4) Military units walking across enemy Farms reduces their food count ("trampling over crops").

3.5) Villagers garrisoned inside of a building slowly repair it free of charge (similar to Herbal Medicine repair speed, very slow).

3.6) Military buildings containing soldiers inside do not display a flag for the enemy to see that someone is inside.

3.7) You can select and see enemy military buildings with flags on them which units are in it.

3.8) Wild animals (not herdables) that are shot by a last non-Villager arrow, don't rot without food, but give only half of its intended food when killed.

3.9) Villagers slowly gather gold in addition to food when gathering from Forage Bushes.

3.10) Villagers can garrison in Mills (like Khmer do in Houses).

3.11) Castles serve as a drop site for all resources (just like Town Centers).

3.12) Farms take up 2x3 tiles instead of 3x3 tiles of space.

3.13) Units take less pierce damage when facing the attacker with their back (for instance, when retreating).

3.14) Trade Cogs can trade with your own Docks, as long as the two docks at least 50 tiles away from each other.





4) Ideas for special technologies:


4.1) "Da Vinci Blueprints (800 wood, 600 gold)": Siege weapon, ship and building (except Castles) repairs are free. Castles cost wood to repair instead of stone, but twice as much.

4.2) "Pollaxe (1000 food, 500 gold)": Halberdiers inflict bonus damage against infantry, but not as much as they do against cavalry.

4.3) "Empire Borderlines (700 food, 400 gold)": You get to place one free Castle (it still has to be built like a normal Castle, but it costs no stone).

4.4) "Refuge (300 wood, 300 food)": All garrisonable building get +3 garrison space.

4.5) "Weighted Arrows (900 food, 400 gold)": Castles inflict +2 bonus damage per arrow to siege weapons.

4.6) "Hot Chocolate (600 food, 300 gold)": Eagle Warriors regenerate health when standing near own or allied buildings.





5) Unique unit ideas:


5.1) Province Militia (70 wood, 60 gold) - Mounted crossbowman. Strong vs. infantry and non-Camel cavalry units. Weak against Skirmishers, Camels and Monks.

5.2) Chain Catapult (200 wood, 150 gold) - Ranged siege weapon similar to a Bombard Cannon, but with a shorter range and slower movement speed. Has high pierce armor.

5.3) Siege Engineer (50 food) - Same cost and stats as a Villager, but its movement speed is similar to Condottiero and its only ability is to repair siege weapons and ships. He
cannot build building or collect resources.